On one fine sunny day, Akbar and Birbal were taking a leisurely walk in the palace gardens. Suddenly, Akbar thought of testing Birbal’s wits by asking him a tricky question. Emperor asked Birbal, “How many crows are there in our kingdom?” Birbal could sense the amusement in the king’s voice, and within a few minutes Birbal replied, “My king, there are eighty thousand nine hundred and seventy-one crows in our kingdom”. Surprised and amazed, Akbar further tested Birbal, “What if we have more crows?” Birbal replied, “Oh, then the crows from the other kingdoms must be visiting us’’. “ What if there are lesser crows?” asked Akbar. “Well, then some of our crows must be visiting other kingdoms”, replied Birbal with a grin on his face. Akbar smiled at Birbal’s great sense of humour and wit.

story 2:Once upon a time, King Akbar lost a ring that was very precious to him. This ring was a gift from his father and losing it made the king very sad. Akbar summoned Birbal and requested him to find the ring. The court was full of courtiers. Birbal announced, “My great king, the ring is right here in the courtroom, and the one who has the ring has a straw stuck in his beard.” Everyone started looking at each other, and one of the courtiers started touching his beard to find the straw. Birbal called the guards and asked them to search the suspect. On searching the suspect, the ring was retrieved. Akbar was amazed at how Birbal managed to find the ring. Birbal said, “My King, the one who is guilty will always feel scared”.